# Drug-Persistency-ML-Model
One of the challenge for all Pharmaceutical companies is to understand the persistency of drug as per the physician prescription. To solve this problem ABC pharma company approached an analytics company to automate this process of identification.
# ML Problem:
With an objective to gather insights on the factors that are impacting the persistency, build a classification ML model for the given dataset.
# Target Variable
Persistency_Flag
# Buisness Understnading
One of the fundamental challenges in the pharmaceutical industry is to comprehend the persistency of drugs as per the physician's prescription. To address this problem “ABC Pharma Company” approached the Data Analytics Company to automate this process and identify the persistency of drugs among patients.ABC company also one of pharmaceutical companies, wants to know how long a medicine will last in a patient's system (persistency of a drug). Based on prescription data, the ABC corporation needs to determine whether a patient is persistent or not. ABC pharma would manufacture medicines in that number based on the persistency count so that they could operate their firm effectively and avoid the risks of NTM infections.
According to WHO, non-persistent long-term medication for diseases such as hypertension and diabetics is a common problem that leads to health benefits and economic consequences such as waste of money and time, uncured disease [1]. The persistence of drugs is an open topic of research and researches is conducted to analyze what factors are contributing to the non-compliance behavior of patients towards drugs. As per the article on DTC perspectives, it is shown that most of the people in the US are not persistent with the drugs. Pharmaceutical companies, Medical organizations, and hospitals lose $100 billion per year along with 125,000 deaths per year due to the non-persistent behavior of patients [2].
